= Welcome to MongoRecord

== Unsupported

Note: MongoRecord is no longer supported by its authors. For a list of MongoDB object mappers, see http://is.gd/gdehy.

== What MongoRecord was

MongoRecord is an ActiveRecord-like framework for
MongoDB[http://www.mongodb.org/].

This document assumes you have read the MongoDB documentation.

A quick code sample:

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'mongo'
  require 'mongo_record'

  class Track < MongoRecord::Base
    collection_name :tracks
    fields :artist, :album, :song, :track
    index :artist

    def to_s
      "artist: #{artist}, album: #{album}, song: #@song, track: #{@track ? @track.to_i : nil}"
    end
  end

  MongoRecord::Base.connection =
    Mongo::Connection.new.db('mongorecord-test')

  t = Track.new(:artist => 'Level 42', :album => 'Standing In The Light',
                :song => 'Micro-Kid', :track => 1)
  t.save
  puts "There are #{Track.count()} tracks."
  t = Track.find(:first, :conditions => {:song => 'Micro-Kid'})
  Track.find(:all, :sort => 'song').each { |t| puts t.to_s }

== Installation

  $ gem install mongo_record

MongoRecord depends on the Mongo Ruby Driver, version 0.20.1 or higher.
Installing the MongoRecord gem will also install the Mongo Ruby Driver if you
don't have it already.

The source code is available at http://github.com/mongodb/mongo-ruby-driver.
You can either clone the git repository or download a tarball or zip file.
Once you have the source, you can use it from wherever you downloaded it or
you can install it as a gem from the source by typing

  $ rake gem:install

== Getting Started

See the examples, read the MongoRecord::Base and MongoRecord::Cursor
documentation, and look at tests/test_mongo.rb.

=== Persistence

You can use MongoRecord::Base or talk to the database (stored in the $db
object) directly.

See MongoRecord::Base and MongoRecord::Cursor.

=== Logger

See MongoRecord::LogDevice. When running outside of the cloud (for example,
during development), all log messages are echoed to $stderr which is normally
the console.

== Credits
Jim Mulholland, jim at squeejee dot com
* Ability to save custom attributes not declared in the model
* Save and retrieve custom "_id" fields
* Find_each functionality
* Find_last based on the created_at field
* Assigning created_at and updated_at fields even if they are not declared
* Alias methods for "first", "last" and "all"
* Fix for sum method

Clinton R. Nixon, crnixon at gmail dot com
* Ability to define and query indexes from models

Nate Wiger, http://github.com/nateware
* Optimization to first and last to close cursor and avoid expensive to_a
* Implemented Model.update_all leveraging Mongo collection.update
* Scoped dynamic finders to each instance, so rows with varying attributes work
* Added row.attributes helper to enable use of ActiveRecord::Callbacks if desired

Camilo Lopez
* Updates for later driver releases.
